In today’s life we try to maximize our tasks within an allotted time. Without the use of modern gadgets it is not possible to accomplish our daily tasks and we are also not able to do our work with efficiency. We cannot even dare to imagine our life  without laptop, smart phones, cell phones, notebooks, microwaves and so on. Obviously many questions will peer into the mind like how will I keep in touch with my friend sand colleagues? How will I text my relatives and friends? Today’s gadgets are the only way we can make our life comfortable and easier.

 
Daily Life Gadgets like smartphone, Laptop and TV

Gadgets for our daily communication
Communication gadgets are a category of gadget which control almost the most of our life but it is not the only gadgets that can increase the efficiency. Just think of the morning when you start using the gadgets. From the very first in the morning you need to use the alarm clock to wake you up until you want to gate late. Then you make your coffee using a coffee maker followed by watching of television to catch the latest news and stock market. Similarly throughout the day you are using many more gadgets that we cannot even remember. Today we are not controlling gadgets instead the gadgets are controlling our life. It has influenced our lives to such an extent that we cannot think a day without them. Starting from the early morning till the time we reach the bed we are making use of some of other gadgets in various ways.

Life helper and optimizer

Life helper and optimizer
Again gadgets not only increased the flexibility and efficiency in our daily life but it also helps us to increase our life expectancy. With the advancement in the technology new sophisticated machines is coming up that enable in surgeries and diagnostic thus preventing people from frequent deaths. In earlier times due to lack of medical development usually people die before the time but recently medical science has developed so much that people can now get medicines for every disease and illness. Even for minor things like measuring blood pressure, sugar level and other there are various kinds of machines. You no longer have to wait for monthly check up or rolled down to the hospital and wait for hours to measure your blood sugar. Today you can get everything at the tip of your finger.

usb stick gadget tool

Memory Tools
Using the sophisticated devices crime investigation has also become very easy. With GPS tracking, CCTV camera, surveillance devices lives have become much safer and secured. Gadgets have also helped to bring joy and entertainment to our lives. It brings joy to the family and now no one have to stay apart from each other and feel the pain of separation. With the advent of gadgets like computer, mobile phone, camera you can now contact with everyone whenever you want and that too at the most reasonable prices. It also enable in our small works because many gadgets come in compact form like knife, spoon, tweezers, bottle opener and fork in  a single gadget.


 
benefits of solar gadgets

Benefits of gadgets
Gadgets have made our life pleasurable like the use of AC during the summer season followed by a room heater during the cold chilly winter seasons. Fans, dryers, washers, sewing machine, air purifiers are all gadgets. Wherever you look you will able to see a gadget. Even for taking care of our hair we need gadgets like hair dryer, hair straightener and so on. Gadgets are also beneficial for disabled people. Take electronic eyes for the blinds. It can help them to detect the zebra crossing and thus ensure safety to cross the roads. Similarly there are many other gadgets like Braille PDA`s, electronic arm etc.

Gadgets can also help in saving  a lot of space. Earlier while using a telephone you need to sit at a single place to talk with the other person but now you can travel anywhere with your Smartphone and talk sitting wherever you want. Nowadays Develop Android Apps have come to bring a revolution in the world of gadget. Again the facility of internet, camera eliminates the need of purchasing a desktop or a camera separately. Gadgets are also meant for fun, for example iPod, MP3, video system, DVD and not the least our favorite “idiot box” – TV. All these are possible only because of the advent in technology. These gadgets can bring the family together and also a smile on your face. These gadgets have become very essential in life and they also help to remove boredom and loneliness in our daily life.

Gadgets make our life comfortable and also saves our time and money. Just think when you can get everything stuffed in a single item then what is the need to spend separately. If you can get internet, email, songs, video, camera, and every feature like that of a computer into a mobile phone then why will you go for purchasing, a notebook, video recorder, music system separately?
Fast Charging for iPhone and Android Smartphones – Quick Charge or Power Delivery
For portable devices, one of the most important factors about them is the charging process for them. As a portable device such as smartphones are only portable in the first place because they have built-in batteries.

However, something that few people focus on is the compatible charging tech that they’re able to use with their smartphone. That said, most Android smartphones these days already come with a wall charger that features Quick Charge with the single port that they use, and so you’re able to fast charge a phone right out of the box.

What about iPhones? Well, even though it’s ridiculous, the iPhone only became fast charging compatible with the release of the iPhone X and the iPhone 8. Even then though, Apple still ships the thousand dollar phone with a slow 5W charger.

 
Also, because of shipping their phone with a 5W slow charger, many owners of the new model iPhones don’t even know how to fast charge it. Can you actually charge an iPhone, a smartphone that still has a Lightning port with a USB-C port?

The answer to that is yes, yes you can. With the use of a Lightning to USB-C charging cable, you’re able to fast charge an iPhone X, iPhone 8 and iPhone XS models.

In this article, we’ll be touching base on what chargers are best to use for both fast charging iPhones and Android smartphones. As both Quick Charge and Power Delivery are two of the most used fast charging technologies currently in use.

Aukey Dual Port USB-C Power Delivery Wall Charger
fast USB-C power charger

Now that USB-C is becoming the standard, or actually, it basically has become the standard with basically all new Android smartphones using the port. As well as laptops using USB-C, and tablets, too, The usage of a wall charger that features nothing but USB-C ports can make sense to own.

That’s what Aukey’s charger features. The charger does indeed have two USB Type-C Power Delivery ports, and each of the two ports has an 18W charging speed.

18W of charging power is where PD charging begins, so it is actually the base of PD charging is what’s being offered here. However, it’s highly useful for fast charging USB-C Android smartphones and iPhones that are Power Delivery compatible. You can even use 18W of charging from a USB-C port to charge some USB-C laptops, such as a MacBook; granted that it won’t be the fastest charging for the laptop, but it’s still possible.

For most Android smartphones, a PD port or even a standard one with the use of a USB-C to USB-C cable is able to fast charge them. As it follows the Type-C standard.

As for fast charging an iPhone X or iPhone 8, all you’ll need is an 18W Type-C PD port, which this Aukey charger uses, and a Lightning to C cable, and you can fast charge your iPhone. Once you hear two rings when your iPhone starts charging, that’s when you’ll know it’s fast charging.

Another great part of this wall charger is its max power of 36W. Which means that you have all the power of the two ports at once.

Satechi PD Desktop Charger with Quick Chargefast USB charger
Then there is the desktop charging station that features more ports and more charging power for their ports.

This Satechi charger not only features many ports, but each of its ports holds a lot of value. Especially the Type-C port. With the Power Delivery port on this charger actually features a 60W charging speed. If you want the best fast chargers, the ones that feature Power Delivery are the best to go with.

60W for a PD is a ton of power, of course, more than enough to use for fast charging Android phones and iPhones, too. Along with the Power Delivery port, this Desktop charger also has a fast charge Quick Charge 3.0 port, too for fast charging just Android smartphones, but you can also use the Quick Charge port to charge non-Quick Charge compatible phones, too.


 
In addition to all of this, there are two regular ports that both have a 12W charging speed. One more thing that this charger also features, which is not power related, is its use of a light sensor. So when it’s dark in your room, the LED power light from the charger dims down.

AIDEAZ Power Bank with Power Delivery, Quick Charge and Wireless Charging
Quick Charge and Wireless Charging

Portable charging has grown significantly in recent years and that’s not too much of a surprise as it’s come a long way in such a short amount of time.

This AIDEAZ power bank is proof that portable chargers have definitely innovated over time and a charger that most should probably think about getting one for a great charging experience while on the move.

The First thing is that the power bank has two types, a 20,000mAh power bank that has a lot more power but is larger, and a 10,000mAh power capacity version that has less power but is more compact.

On the charging side, though, the two versions of this power bank are in the same league. Either version has three ways to charge from the power bank. Of the two ports, one is a QC USB-A port, and the other is a USB-C PD port with an 18W speed.

So you can fast charge either an iPhone with the PD port or an Android smartphone with the Quick Charge port. The one other charging method with this portable charger is the wireless charging on top.

Yes, wireless charging on a power bank. What a time to be alive. One factor that we forgot to mention is that most Android smartphones are wireless charging compatible, and another important factor of iPhones becoming Power Delivery compatible is that they’re also wireless charging compatible, too.

So whether you’re an Android smartphone owner or an iPhone X, iPhone 8, or iPhone XS owner, you’re able to basically use all facets of this portable charger.

To really seal the deal, this AIDEAZ portable charger also has a digital display on it, which is something that not many power banks feature. The display is able to tell you how much power is left and what charging method is being used.
