APPLE IPHONE XR MAY LAUNCH IN TWO NEW COLOURS: REPORT
Apple iPhone XR was launched for those who didn't want shell out a lakh (base variant) to buy the iPhone XS. The phone also inherited the colourful back concept from the iPhone 5C in May 2014. The latest report about it has now claimed that Apple will launch a successor to the original iPhone XR this year in two new colours. According to Japanese tech news platform Macotakara, these two new colours will be Green and Lavender variants, and will replace Blue and Coral. Citing reliable sources, the report says that these two colours will join the remaining ones: Black, White, Red, and Yellow.
The iPhone XR is the most affordable of the three iPhones launched last year. It borrows the design from the iPhone XS and iPhone XS Max, but comes up short on the features front. Unlike the other two smartphones, the iPhone XR comes equipped with a 6.1-inch LCD “Liquid Retina” display and a single camera at the back. The phone is built with an aerospace-grade aluminum and ships in six colours.

Under the hood, Apple has equipped the smartphone with an A12 Bionic chip and provided the same power to the variant as the other two models. The phone comes in three storage variants: 64GB, 128GB and 256GB. The iPhone XR features a single rear camera with a f/1.8 12MP wide-angle sensor and Optical Image Stabilisation. There is also a 7MP sensor that can capture selfies in portrait mode. The smartphone is also IP67-certified and can withstand water splashes. At launch, Apple claimed that the iPhone XR could deliver up to one and a half hours of extra battery life than the iPhone 8 Plus.

APPLE IPHONE XR 2019 RENDERS SHOW A DUAL CAMERA SETUP WITH A SQUARE BUMP
Information circulating the internet suggests that the upcoming iPhone XR will have a bump at the back, similar to the one we saw on the renders of the iPhone XS successor. The back of the iPhone XR 2019 seems to have the same bump we saw on the back renders of the iPhone XI. The only difference is that the smartphone will have a dual camera setup instead of a triple camera setup which is expected on the iPhone XI. It is expected to have a dual 12MP wide + telephoto camera at the back. However, specifications of the camera aren’t officially known. Coming to the front of the phone, it is expected to house a 6.1-inch display. From the front, the renders show the iPhone XR 2019 looks like its predecessor. 
The 2019 iPhone XR is expected to measure 7.8mm in thickness. However, at its thickest point, which includes the camera bump, the smartphone is 8.5mm in thickness. Just so you know, the iPhone XR that's currently available in the market measures 8.3mm in thickness, not counting the protruding camera.

From the renders, it looks like the 2019 iPhone XR will have a notch which is expected to house the front-facing camera and the Face ID tech. From the renders, it looks like the iPhone XR will still sport a lightning port instead of USB-C. Apple shifted to USB-C for its Pro lineup of iPads and information circulating the internet suggested that the iPhones would follow suit. It looks like the iPhone XR 2019 may miss the USB-C bus. 
APPLE, QUALCOMM TO WORK TOGETHER FOR IN-DISPLAY FINGERPRINT SENSORS AND 5G IPHONES
Last week, Apple and Qualcomm landed on the same page after ending their two-year-long dispute, and now both the companies are reportedly working together on a number of hardware components for future iPhones. There are two separate reports making rounds on the internet which claim that the Cupertino-based giant is working with Qualcomm to incorporate an ultrasonic in-display fingerprint sensor as well as 5G baseband chips for iPhones.
The first report comes from a China-based technology news platform which, citing sources in the industry chain, claims that Apple and Qualcomm will be working on bringing the ultrasonic in-display fingerprint sensor to iPhones, however, the news does not say when these phones will launch. The news comes as a shocker because Apple has already moved on from the idea of including a fingerprint sensor in its phones.

All the latest iPhones (iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max and iPhone XR) are shipped without a fingerprint sensor. If the report is true, it could suggest that Apple may have heard its customers which complained that using the Face ID is not as easy as using fingerprint sensor to unlock the phone. This is all speculation and it is possible that Apple might bring both the Face ID as well as the ultrasonic fingerprint sensors, that Qualcomm launched in June last year, in the future iPhones.
Samsung is the first company to include this tech in the Galaxy S10 and Galaxy S10 Plus phones. As compared to an optical sensor, an ultrasonic fingerprint sensor is claimed to unlock the device in 250 ms and carry 1 percent maximum rejection rate.

advertisements

Further, the second news comes from Ming-Chi Kuo (via 9to5mac), who has claimed that Apple will include 5G baseband chips from Qualcomm as well as from Samsung in its 5G iPhones. iPhone with 5G support are expected to start shipping from second half of 2020. Kuo claimed that Apple will use Qualcomm 5G chips for countries with mmWave spectrum 5G, and the markets with Sub-6GHz markets will see their iPhones using the Samsung chips.

Kuo also highlighted three benefits to sourcing 5G chips from two suppliers. He says that the move will give Apple less supply risk, lower costs, and more bargaining power. Intel was supposed to be the provider of 5G chips to Apple, but the news of Qualcomm and Apple patching up was followed by Intel announcement that it is exiting the mobile modem business.

advertisements
Further, the TF International Securities analyst believes that 5G iPhones will create a new wave of upgrade demand for Apple. He predicts that about 195-200 million iPhones will be shipped in 2020, which is up from his 2019 prediction of 188-192 million shipments. He further says that Apple will ship 70-75 million flagship iPhones in 2020 alone, which is up from 65-70 million flagship models this fall.
