APPLE IPHONE XR PRICES TO TEMPORARILY DROP FROM APRIL 5 UNDER PROMOTIONAL OFFER
Highlights:

Apple announces promotional price cut for iPhone XR.
The offer starts from April 5; the MRP on the website is the same as the launch price.
HDFC customers can also avail 10% cashback on debit and credit cards.

Apple has announced a temporary price cut on all the three variants of the iPhone XR (Review) under a promotional offer. The company said that the offer will start from April 5 and will run till the stocks last. For HDFC Bank customers, the phone will be available for further lower prices as compared to the non-HDFC customers. Moreover, Apple has also bundled some offers like cashback and No Cost EMI.
All the iPhone XR variants have got a price cut of approximately 18-22 percent. The iPhone XR 64GB, which is priced at Rs 76,900, will be available for Rs 59,900 to non-HDFC customers. For HDFC customers, the variant will be available for Rs 53,900. Similarly, the iPhone XR 128GB priced at Rs 81,900 will be available for Rs 64,900 (for non-HDFC customers) and Rs 58,400 (for HDFC customers). The iPhone XR 256GB is priced at Rs 91,900, but for non HDFC customers, it will be available for Rs 74,900 and HDFC customers can get it for Rs 67,400.

The promotional offers include 10 percent cashback on HDFC Bank debit and credit cards and the offer accepts zero payment. Further, the cashback is available for customers making a full swipe on credit or debit cards. Those who are interested in buying the phone can also avail a No Cost EMI loans from Bajaj Finance Ltd. and HDFC Bank Consumer Loans.
The move can be seen as Apple’s strategy to boost sales and address growing price competitiveness in the segment. Samsung has already launched a watered-down version of its Galaxy S10 flagship in the form of the Galaxy S10e and reports have suggested that the rumoured Google Pixel 3a will also be cheaper than the iPhone XR. Apart from being mired in legal controversies, Apple is also facing the brunt of US-China trade tensions.  

On the top of that, the high cost of iPhones and intense competition from Chinese smartphone makers has been the main reason for Apple’s worst performance since 2014 in India. Last year, company CEO Tim Cook said that Apple's India business grew from $100-200 million a few years ago to over $2 billion in 2016 and flattened out after that. Apple considers India an important market but still doesn’t want to sell cheaper iPhones in India.

ALLEGED 'REDMI PRO 2' WITH SNAPDRAGON 855 LEAKS, COULD BE SAME AS 'REDMI X'
Redmi might be looking to expand its flagship portfolio with the launch of a phone with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 processor. There are already reports about a rumoured Redmi X, which is not the actual name of the device. The latest leak suggests that it might be called the Redmi Pro 2. The spec sheet of this phone has been leaked by a Chinese tipster on Weibo, and it is similar to the the Redmi X. Now, we don’t know if it is true. These phones could be two different devices with similar specs.

According to the leaked spec sheet, this phone is powered by the Snapdragon 855. There is no information on the RAM and storage variants. It’s display is said to be 6.39-inches and may have FHD+ resolution. It is mentioned that the display will have a Gorilla Glass 5 protection and an in-display fingerprint sensor. The phone does not have a notch and will have 20MP pop-up camera. The image along with the spec-sheet shows a triple camera setup with a 48MP primary sensor. The phone may come with a 3,600 mAh battery with 27W fast charging support. It is also said to come with the IR port, and is expected to come in Red, Blue, and Black colours.

As mentioned, Redmi is already working on a flagship device, and a lot of teasers have already given details about specs of the phone. The phone is said to come with an ultra-wide lens, 3.5mm jack and NFC. The phone is likely to have a rear triple camera setup with a 48MP main sensor, a 13MP sensor and an 8MP sensor. Some other leaked alleged specs for the Redmi flagship include a 6.39-inch display that might offer a resolution of 2340 x 1080 pixels. We already know that the phone will likely have a Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 chipset under the hood, and abundant stocks of the phone are already being prepared. Previous leaks have suggested that the phone might come with an 8GB/128GB memory/storage configuration.
OPPO K3 LEAKED ONLINE LISTING HINTS AT PRICING, SPECS AND COLOUR VARIANTS
Oppo seems to be gearing up to launch a new smartphone called the Oppo K3. Details about the smartphone have surfaced online. The phone’s key hardware specs were recently leaked online, and we have now come across a new report that claims to detail the device’s pricing, colour options and other details. According to ITHome, the phone has been spotted on China Telecom's website and the listing is more or less in line with previous reports, which state that the Oppo K3 could be a mid-range phone powered by the Snapdragon 710 SoC. 
What’s new is the alleged pricing and colour variant details of the rumoured phone. As per the report, the Oppo K3 could be priced at CNY 2,199 (Rs 22,500 approx) for the listed 8GB RAM + 128GB storage model. The handset is also expected to offer a 6GB RAM version, but there’s currently no info on what that particular model could be priced at. Oppo is yet to even officially acknowledge the phone, but its apprearance on China Telecom's website suggests that it could launch soon. Othe informatiion revealed by the leak suggest that the phone might be available in Nebula Purple, Dark Black, and Morning White colours. 
As per the report, the Oppo K3 features a 6.5-inch display that is said to deliver a resolution of 1080x2340 pixels. The report also includes some blurry images of the phone, but they seem to indicate a bezel-less design. The device could feature a 16MP sensor on the front, which is speculated to be housed in a pop-up camera module. On the back, the device is listed to come equipped with a 16MP + 2MP dual rear camera setup. It may be powered by the Snapdragon 710 SoC, coupled with 8GB RAM. The leaked specs of the phone are similar to what we have previously come across in a report. 
