What are some cool gadgets to buy under 5000 rupees?
Bracelet cum wine bottle

Fancyku Bracelet Flask Food Grade 3.5 oz. Stainless Steel Outdoor Wine Bottle - Silver


Material: Stainless Steel, food grade
Dimensions: inner diameter: 6.8 cm/2.7 inches, outer diameter: 10 cm/4.0 inches, thickness: 3.7 cm/1.45 inches
Bracelet style, beautiful and portable, you can take go to a party, shopping, eating, watching movies, etc
You can fill the bracelet flask with wine, beverage, water, etc., but can't fill with corrosive thing, it will destroy bracelet flask
An unexpected surprise for best friends, lover, honey, family, sister, mom etc. Great jewelry for you.
Havells Birdie 230mm Personal Fan (Black and Grey)

Powerful energy efficient 2 pole capacitor type motor to deliver strong air blast at 2800 RPM with nominal power consumption
Customer service number: 18001031313
Aerodynamically designed 3 leaf ABS blade with aerofoil section for maximum air efficiency
Unique rocker design to allow 360 degree rotation of fan head both in horizontal and vertical plane
Elegant spiral mesh guard with guard ring adorned with show cap gives a touch of grace
Multiuse fan suitable for use as desk, wall or cabin/deck mounted application
Warranty: 2 years on product
Speed: 2800 RPM
Air Delivery: 38 CMM
Power: 55 watts

lazy reading glasses european quality GP TECH

This item is a Horizontal lazy glasses Creative High Definition Horizontal Glasses Lazy Glasses
It Can Bring Great Protection For Your Eyes, Neck, Shoulders.

Bluewud Reynold TU-RE-LAW Wall Unit (Wenge)


Product Dimensions: Length (125 cm) Breadth (31.8 cm) Height (28.6 cm), Material: Engineering Wood (Particle Board), Color: Wenge, Style: Contemporary, Weight: 14.5 Kgs, Warranty: 1 year, Suitable TV Size: Maximum 50"
Reynolds TV unit shelf from is a perfect wall mounted entertainment center for your living room which adds a touch of elegance and sophistication to your decor theme
The tv cabinet comfortably accommodates your set top box, dvd player and external speakers, shelves are large enough to house your media collection, décor items, books etc
Best in class, each piece is crafted using best automated machines of international repute resulting in a flawless product to make your home classy and stylish
Made of premium high grade 18mm thick prelam engineering wood with natural wood grain finish
Happy Shopping
Here are some best cool gadgets under 5,000 given below :

1.8X Zoom Telescope Lens For Smart Phones


Using this lens, you now can finally take amazing, zoomed in photos with your smart phone. What is some amazing about this lens, is that it will work with any model of phone that you have. With its creative design, you simply clip it onto your phone, and then you are ready to snap some amazing pictures.

Link : 8X Zoom Telescope Lens For Smart Phones

2.Ulta Thin Mobile Phones


Using a smart phone may be great in some ways, but some people keep spending more time on their phone than in the real world. This simple phone, has all necessary features you need in your life, but it stands out due to its incredibly design

Link : Ulta Thin Mobile Phones

3.Digital Alarm Clock with Message Screen


Do you have issues waking up in the morning? Tired of being sleepy, and grumpy on your way to school or work? It's time to stop worrying about!Wake up with a smile on your face by this digital alarm clock that shows a message on the screen next to your bed.﻿

Link : Digital Alarm Clock with Message Screen

4. 3-in-1 Smart Phone Lenses


Wanna take awesome pictures but don't have a great digital camera? Few people know that the secret behind taking great photos is that you need good lenses, and unfortunately today's smart phones just comes with the standard one.

Link : 3-in-1 Smart Phone Lenses

5.World's Smallest Mini Camera


Only an inch tall and an inch wide, this camera can still produce high quality pictures and video. With a camera of 2 million pixels and picture resolution of 720p, and a video resolution of 30fps, this mini camera works like a charm! And it all operates on just one button…
5 some cool gadgets to buy under 5000 rupees

The gadgets that I’m mentioning here, you can use them in your day to day activities.

These are super useful gadgets that are must buy in India nowadays.

SJCam SJ4000 12MP Wi-Fi Action Camera (Black)


SJCAM SJ4000 Wi-Fi action camera has a 12 megapixel sensor for shooting crisp photos and recording amazing 1080P videos.

The SJCAM SJ4000 with high precision super wide angle lens provides superb image quality with vivid colours.

Also, it detects motion to make your movie clips sharp and exciting.

Features:

Wide Angle Display Lens
Water-Proof Casing
Supports Wi-Fi
HD Display
Read more: Amazon.in: Electronics

Allin Exporters Dt-1618 Ultrasonic Diffuser & Humidifier


Who Doesn't Want To Attain A Balanced Level Of Humidity In The Interiors For A Healthy Living?

Almost Everyone Does! And, What If You Can Attain The Perfect Level Of Humidity Along With The Aroma Of Natural Essential Oils? Sounds Exciting?

Allin Exporters Ultrasonic Humidifier Aroma Diffuser Is The Perfect Solution For Home, Offices, Workplace, Aromatherapy Centers And Other Allied Places To Maintain An Ideal Level Of Moisture And A Refreshing Air Throughout Interiors.

It Features A 1.5L Tank To Let You Enjoy Its 5-In-1 Features For Longer Hours Even During The Sleep.

Features:

Relaxes Mind & Body
Relaxes Mind & Body
Match Any Decor
Continuous Operation
Read more: Allin Exporters Dt-1618 Ultrasonic Diffuser & Humidifier Safe To Use With Essential Oil- 1500 ml Tank Capacity

Echo Dot (2nd Gen) - Smart speaker with Alexa


Echo Dot is a hands-free, voice-controlled smart device for the home with a built-in speaker.

Echo Dot connects to the Alexa Voice Service to play music, make calls, answer questions, provide information, news, sports scores, weather, and more - instantly.

Read more: Amazon Echo Dot Black - Price, Features, Reviews in India

Amazon Fire TV Stick with Voice Remote | Streaming Media Player


What is Fire TV?

Fire TV Stick connects you to a world of online entertainment. With 3000+ apps, watch thousands of movies and TV shows on HD TV. Find your favorite web content with voice search and watch it anytime.

Read more here: Buy Amazon Fire TV Stick with Voice Remote & Streaming Media Player Online at Best Price in India- Amazon.in

Logitech G402 Hyperion Fury Ultra Fast FPS Gaming Mouse


The Logitech G402 Hyperion Fury Ultra-Fast FPS Gaming Mouse is your ideal companion to enjoy superfast gaming.

Designed with the cutting edge technology of new Fusion Engine and effective features, this gaming mouse provides convenience and faster-tracking speed.

It comes with multiple programming buttons and with a Delta Zero sensor that facilitates accuracy.
1. TrackR Pixel Lost Item Tracker

Losing is a thing of the past. TrackR is the slimmest, sleekest Bluetooth Tracker. With a loud ringer, you can find almost anything faster.


Two variants – TrackR Bravo and TrackR Pixel
Beautiful anodized aluminium construction - wallet thin design and durability.
Get notified when the battery is low.
Locate items around the home using the distance indicator radar.
Track and ring the same TrackR pixel from multiple phones.
Tap on the app to see where you last had your stuff.
Receive notification when a TrackR app user passes by your lost item.
Can’t find your phone? Press your TrackR: your phone rings-even when it’s on silent.
TrackR Pixel doesn’t just rings, also lights up to make finding easier.
You can ask “Alexa” - Amazon Alexa Skills to help you find your phone.
2. Tile Mate Key Finder

