REDMI’S UPCOMING FLAGSHIP TO BE GAMING-CENTRIC, NEW REPORT SUGGESTS TWO VARIANTS IN THE MAKING

Redmi confirmed it will soon launch a Snapdragon 855 powered smartphone, which is expected to be its first flagship device. We already know about the upcoming phones from the bits and pieces of information the company’s GM Lu Weibing keeps sharing. Now, the executive says that the Redmi flagship will be optimised for gaming. In a Weibo post, the Weibing lists the three ‘pain points’ currently associated with gaming smartphones, which are said to be addressed with the company’s upcoming device. Additionally, an out-of-the-blue report by the tipster Ishan Agarwal suggests that the company is readying not one, but two phones. The report also doles out some additional information about the two devices. 
Let’s start with the official information we have from Weibing. The company executive says that the Redmi phone will address three main problems that are said to be common with smartphone gaming. These issues are said to be break or game delay, frequency reduction and battery. While there’s no additional information on what this means, rumours suggest that reducing game delay might be a nod at the Snapdragon 855 SoC, which is expected to handle all gaming needs smoothly. On the other hand, a screen with higher refresh rate could also be included, along with a bigger battery, which has already been teased. 

As for the other report, Redmi might be preparing to launch not one but two Redmi phones. As per the tipster, one of the phones is a flagship that the company is teasing while the other one could be a midranger. If true, this info wouldn’t be too surprising since Realme is also speculated to announce two phones in China, the Realme X with Snapdragon 855 and the Realme X Lite with a Snapdragon 710 SoC. The report also tips at the various storage and colour versions the upcoming Redmi phone might be made available in. It will reportedly be announced in 6GB RAM model with options to select from 64GB or 128GB of storage and 8GB RAM model with 128GB and 256GB storage options. The handset might be made available in Red, Carbon Fiber and Blue colour models. 
The Infinix Smart 3 Plus is loaded with a host of interesting features, which could be tempting for the first-time smartphone buyers or those looking for a phone on a tight budget.
The entry-level segment in the smartphone is probably one of the most interesting ones. Although we have brands like Xiaomi, Realme and more fighting their way to the top, especially in the sub Rs 10,000 segment, we other Chinese brands taking head-on-head competition in the entry-level category.

One such brand is Infinix. The company has introduced a slew of products in this price band and the latest one is the Infinix Smart 3 Plus. The phone comes loaded with a price tag of Rs 6,999 and it is available for purchase from Flipkart. The Infinix Smart 3 Plus is loaded with a host of interesting features, which could be tempting for the first-time smartphone buyers or those looking for a phone on a tight budget. However, does it deliver? Let’s find out.
What we like about Infinix Smart 3 Plus!
The most striking thing about this device has to be the design. The phone comes loaded with a glossy finish at the back panel, which is equipped with a mirror finish. This adds some premium looks in this budget phone and makes it stand out of from the mundane looking crowd of smartphones. It is lightweight in nature and fits comfortably in your hand. At Rs 6,999, this is surely one of the beautiful-looking smartphones we have come across. However, you still need to settle with smudges at the back and front panel, but thankfully, the company has given a protective case with this one. 

Another thing we liked about Infinix Smart 3 Plus is the display. The phone comes loaded with a 6.21-inch HD+ display with a screen resolution of 1520 x 720 pixels. The display is decent considering the price band. It offers some good colour reproduction and viewing angles seem to be decent enough. Interestingly, if you are one of those who want to enjoy video content on a large screen, then this device can surely be considered as a good option.

Infinix Smart 3 Plus
The Infinix Smart 3 Plus runs on Android 9.0 Pie, which is based on the company’s Cheetah XOS 5.0 running on top of it. The user interface is smooth to operate and it comes loaded with some interesting features. There is a page when you swipe left, that helps you in search, shows recent apps, weather information and lets book a cab from OLA. We also like the fact that the company has given app drawer, which makes your home screen less cluttered.

The daylight camera performance of the Infinix Smart 3 Plus is quite good for its budget. The phone was able to take some good shots in broad daylight. The pictures a bit dull in nature, but the detailing is on par with the competition. Furthermore, the phone does a good job of capturing macro shots.

Infinix Smart 3 Plus

The battery also does a quite decent job in our testing. The 3,500mAh battery lasted for almost one full day with normal usage and there was still 15 per cent battery left. Under power usage, you can comfortably get 4 to 6 hours of battery life. Coming to charging speed, the phone can be charged from 0 to 100 per cent in about 1 hour and 30 minutes. Apart from this, the fingerprint sensor works fine, but it is not as fast as we have seen in other smartphones.

What we don’t like about Infinix Smart 3 Plus!

Coming to the downside, low light performance is not really great. The photos came out to be grainy and there was a particular drop of quality in our testing. Also, we found that there was a certain shutter lag and the phone took a couple of seconds to load the previously clicked image. The selfie performance is quite average as well. The phone does an average in broad daylight as most of the time the background was overexposed. In low light, the selfie came out to be full of noises and the quality was not that impressive.

Infinix Smart 3 Plus

Another down point is some features on the user interface. First of all, there is a lot of bloatware present on this phone, which spoils the mood. Secondly, the company has the Smart Panel, which is basically a rip-off of Samsung’s Edge menu. Although you can customise the Smart Panel, most of the time you will end up click wrong icon with your thumb due to two columns. It would have been better if the company provided a single column. Furthermore, there is one AIBox that basically block notification. But, ironically, the app shows a permanent notification, which you just cannot disable it.

Coming to the performance, the phone comes loaded with an Helio A22 processor, which delivers some good results if you are not a heavy user. The phone handles most of the daily tasks quite effectively, although, if you are into heavy multitasking, then you might feel some shutter or lag. On the gaming front, it can handle casual games, but it is not meant to tackle high-end games. For this price point, you cannot expect a phone to run PUBG Mobile with smooth graphics? Can You?

Vivo has been steadily launching multiple smartphones at different price points in the Indian market. One of the recent models to launch is the Vivo Y17. The smartphone boasts of a new MediaTek Helio P35 SoC and offers 128GB of internal storage. It packs in a big 5000mAh battery and claims to offer good battery life. Just like some of the other smartphone manufacturers, Vivo too has opted for flashy colours for the Y17. For the asking price of Rs. 17,990 is this Vivo ready to face the competition? We spent some time with the Vivo Y17 and here are our first impressions of the device.

The Vivo Y17 ₹ 17,990 is primarily made out of plastic, just like some of the other smartphones in the same series. It is available in two finishes, Mineral Blue and Mystic Purple. We got a Mineral Blue review unit that has a gradient finish on the back. While it looks like the back is made out of glass at first glance, it is made out of plastic. It is a fingerprint magnet and we had to keep wiping it often to keep it smudge free. In the past we have seen that a glossy plastic body picks up fine hairline scratches, so it'll be interesting to see how the Vivo Y17 fares when we review it. Vivo ships a case in the box which should help in this case.

At the front, the Y17 has a big 6.35-inch HD+ (720x1544) LCD display with a waterdrop notch. It has a 19.3:9 aspect ratio and claims an 89 percent screen-to-body ratio. We found the display to have decent viewing angles and adequate brightness. However, most other smartphones at this price point like the Redmi Note 7 Pro ₹ 16,599 (Review) and the Oppo K1 ₹ 16,990 (Review) sport full-HD+ display panels putting the Vivo Y17 on the back foot. The display has thin bezels all around but the bottom chin is comparatively thicker. Vivo has moved the earpiece grille towards the frame, which is made out of plastic. The frame houses the power and the volume buttons on the right while the SIM tray slot is on the left. We found that the buttons are well positioned and are easy to reach. The frame is slightly rounded that makes it comfortable to hold.



 

Vivo has positioned the 3.5mm headphone jack, microUSB port, primary microphone and the loudspeaker grille at the bottom while the top of the phone is completely blank. We found the Micro-USB port to be a little disappointing considering most other smartphones at this price point sport a USB Type-C port. At the back, the Vivo Y17 has an AI-based triple camera setup, a first in the Y series.

The camera module on the phone protrudes slightly and has a bronze coloured trim piece around it. This module houses the 13-megapixel primary sensor with an f/2.2 aperture, an 8-megapixel super wide-angle sensor with f/2.2 aperture and a 2-megapixel depth sensor with f/2.4 aperture. At the front, the Y17 has a 20-megapixel selfie shooter with an f/2.0 aperture.

The capacitive fingerprint scanner is positioned at the back and is easily reachable. We found the scanner to be quick to scan and unlock the smartphone. It also has face unlock which can be used to unlock the smartphone but we will be testing it out when we review it.

Vivo has picked the new MediaTek Helio P35 SoC to power the Y17. It is an octa-core processor with eight Cortex-A53 cores. The choice of processor is a little surprising at this price since the competition offers powerful processors. We will put this Helio P35 through its paces soon in the full review to see if this hampers the prospects of the phone.

Vivo has launched only one variant of the Vivo Y17 in the country with 4GB of RAM and 128GB of internal storage. There is a dedicated microSD card slot which allows storage expansion. The Y17 has a dual Nano SIM slots with support for 4G as well as VoLTE on both.

vivo y17 ndtv back Vivo Y17 First ImpressionsThe AI-based triple camera setup on the Y17 next to the capacitive fingerprint scanner.

It has support for dual band Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 5, GPS, BeiDou, GLONASS, Galileo, and FM Radio among others. The Vivo Y17 packs in a big 5000mAh battery which should help the smartphone deliver good battery life. Vivo also ships an 18W fast charger in the box which should help the top the battery up quickly.

Software-wise the new Y17 runs Funtouch OS 9 based on the latest Android 9 Pie. The new version of Funtouch OS does not have an app drawer and all apps are available right at the home screen. The Y17 performed well while we were scrolling through the apps and menus and could multitask without slowing down.

We will be testing how Vivo's latest Y17 performs in our benchmark tests and in day-to-day use. We are also waiting to put the big 5000mAh battery and the AI-based triple camera setup to the test. Stay tuned to Gadgets 360 for our full review of the Vivo Y17, coming soon.
Sony has proved that it is capable of delivering premium wireless headphones that offer exceptional sound. The WH-1000XM3 (Review), for example, are one of the best over-the-ear nose cancelling headphones you can buy under Rs 30,000. They are primarily for audiophiles who love a crisp and balanced sound that work with almost any genre of music. But Sony also caters to a large section of the society that want affordable headphones that mainly deliver thumping basslines. Sony has the Extra Bass series for that and today we're looking at the Sony WH-XB700 on-ear wireless headphones.

The Sony WH-XB700 were launched in India last month with a price of Rs 8,990. As part of the Extra Bass series, the WH-XB700 are, of course, a bass-heavy pair of headphones, but Sony is also promising good vocal clarity, which often tends to get suppressed with such headphones. Additionally, the company also promises a 30-hour battery life and a comfortable, lightweight design. Do the Sony WH-XB700 deliver on these promises and are they worth their asking price. Read our review to find out.

Sony WH-XB700 Design and Comfort
The Sony WH-XB700 are a simple and modest-looking pair of headphones that are quite lightweight. You won't find any fancy accents here and there or metal used to make the device look more premium. Sony has used a combination of plastic and soft cushions that helps keep the headset light and easy to wear for a while.

There is a generous amount of cushioning around the ear cups and part of the headband that rests on the top of your head. On-ear headphones can be troublesome for people who may find the pressure on their ears too much. While it will still affect those with sensitive ears, it does help in reducing some of the pressure on the ears. Depending on your threshold, you can either wear the headset for a couple of hours or no longer than 30 minutes. While I found the cushions comfortable enough, my ears did get quite warm and I often had to lift the cans to let my ears breath a little.


You won't face any issue wearing the Sony WH-XB700 for a couple of hours at a stretch, whether it is while commuting or at home. Since the earcups don't wrap around your ear to create a seal, there will be some amount of external sound that gets in, but the headphones still manage to offer good isolation.

The cans are attached to a swivel mechanism that lets you turn the earcups flat for easier portability. However, the headphones can fold up like the 1000XM3 so they're not as space saving as Sony would have you believe. The headband can extend quite a bit, revealing a metallic inner frame.

On the bottom of the left ear cup, you'll find the power button, a Custom button to invoke Google Assistant or Alexa, a 3.5mm port for wired listening, a microphone and a Type-C port (thankfully). The right ear cup is where you'll find the volume and play/pause buttons. The buttons a tactile and easy enough to distinguish.

Sony WH-XB700 Sound Quality
As the WH-XB700 are bass-heavy headphones, you're likely to find a good amount of thump in pretty much any song that offers the slightest hint of a bassline. That being said, there is a thin line between being boomy and being so boomy that it overpowers everything else. Luckily, the WH-XB700 avoids the pitfalls of the latter and manages to find a pretty nice balance where the bass offers a good resonant sound while the vocals remain clear as well.

I checked out Bunker and Fever by Balthazar, which are bass-centric songs offering some funky bass riffs that resonates in your ears, offering the right punch without clouding the vocals. The highs are a little more muted, and the headset doesn't offer the best separation or soundstage in busy genres like rock or jazz.

The WH-XB700 are better suited for genres like Pop, Hip-Hip or acoustic genres that focus on fewer instruments. 3005 and Sweatpants by Childish Gambino offer a pretty rumbling bass which sound pretty powerful on WH-XB700, but despite the boomy sound, Gambino's voice remains clear and balanced. The higher registers do get muted and overpowered, but you won't be bothered about that in such songs.

In songs like Blood Like Lemonade by Morcheeba and Hell After This by Dido, you can feel the artificial bass boost, which bassheads wouldn't complain about. I would have found issue with this had the mids and vocal range of these female singers been recessed, but luckily that doesn't happen.


Overall, the WH-XB700 sound warm rather than bright. There is a clear emphasis on bass and vocals while the highs are toned down. It leads to a comfortable listening experience that's great for a few genres and even better if you're watching movies and want to feel like you're in a theater with woofers booming at you. However, you won't find a balanced sound here and picky audiophiles will have issues with sound separation and narrow soundstage.

You can also download the Sony Connect Headphones app for iOS or Android to tweak the bass to your liking. You can reduce the bass so that the vocals are clearer or you can punch it if you really want the headset to rock you. You can also tweak the soundstage, though it doesn't really help in making things better.

Pairing the WH-XB700 to your phone or laptop is simple enough. You have to press and hold the power button to enable the pairing. The headset also supports NFC for an easier touch-to-pair process.

As I mentioned earlier, the headset does come with a built-in Google Assistant or Alexa button that you can assign using the app. Unfortunately, there is no Siri support if you're using an iPhone. While call quality is decent, the microphone isn't great at picking up your voice and blocking external sound, so the caller will have trouble hearing you if your outdoors.

Sony WH-XB700 Battery
Sony promises 30 hours of battery life with the WH-XB700. While it is hard to test this without a continuously wearing the headset for 30 hours, the estimate seems right. I used the WH-XB700 for around two hours everyday during for a full week and I was still left with a lot of battery in the tank. Suffice it to say that battery life will not be an issue here and you will go through a week easily even with prolonged listening sessions.


The WH-XB700 support fast charging, which is nice to see. Charging the headset for 10 minutes should provide around 90 minutes of music playback. It takes over three hours to full charge the headphones from zero to 100 per cent. If the battery somehow does die on you, you can always use a 3.5mm AUX cable for wired listening.

Should you buy the Sony WH-XB700?
The Sony WH-XB700 is not just for bassheads looking to get immersed in good vibrations. Sony has done well to make sure that vocals are prominent as well, so you get a warm and pleasant listening experience. The battery life is absolutely exceptional and that alone should make you happy.

Comfort is always an issue when it comes to on-ear headphones. Personally, I found the padding comfortable enough and the pressure on my ears to be on the lower side, but my ears did get uncomfortably warm after about 15 to 20 minutes due to the Delhi heat, causing me to air them frequently. While the headphones sound pretty good for bass lovers, the real question you will have to ask yourself is whether your ears can handle the cans or not. I would recommend trying them out at a store rather than purchasing them online.
