Don’t want to lose your precious things? Here is the most efficient and smallest Bluetooth tracker of the era, a companion that helps you find your thing - Tile Mate. It is designed to easily hook onto anything you don’t want to lose.


Features:

Waterproof and 25% smaller.
Replaceable Battery
Tile can help you find just about anything. And it’s so simple, even a kid can explain it.
Find lost items with your phone within the 150-foot Bluetooth range; it will play a loud tune until you find it.
Can’t find your phone? Double press your Tiles to make it ring, even if it’s on silent.
Helps you retrace your steps to the last place and time you had your item.
Tile’s global community of users automatically updates you on your item’s most recent location just by passing by it.
Super thin and easy to attach.
3. Tile Sport Tracking Device

Don’t worry about losing stuff, no matter where you are, anymore. Tile Sport makes it easy for you to find everything that matters, regardless of your location.


Features:

Most powerful range, reaching up to 300 feet.
Waterproof up to 1.5 meters for up to 30 minutes.
Twice as loud – hear it clear and find it.
Drop tests. Squish tests. Tumble tests makes our real life more than covered.
Know when you’re getting closer to your lost item.
Choose from a variety of new ringtones to optimize your finding.
4. Tile Style Bluetooth Tracker

Tile Style makes it easy for you to find everything that matters, regardless where you are.


Features:

Most powerful range, reaching up to 300 feet.
Waterproof up to 1.5 meters for up to 30 minutes.
Twice as loud – hear it clear and find it.
Know when you’re getting closer to your lost item.
Choose from a variety of new ringtones to optimize your finding.
Work together with friends and strangers to find what matters, using Tile app.
There are many things that you can buy under 500Rs from Amazon. I made a list of some products myself that I felt are good to buy, and me and my team tested those products and then added to the list accordingly.

There are some items mentioned here, and if you want to check out the full list, then you can check out the link below, and also at the end

Tech Under 500Rs

Portronics Swipe 2-in-1 Screen Cleaner


This is my Favorite Product in this List of Tech Under 500Rs because its soo useful (To Me), now this product is so easy to use and it effective too, you just have to spray it on and clean it like a duster, and that's it.

The screen of your Smartphone or Laptop will be cleaned in a go. This is for the people who forget to clean their stuff, and for youtubers, as they need clean products for their shots ;)

You can buy this under 500 from Amazon via the Link below.

Buy it from Amazon

Flexible 10-inch Mini TriPod


This is one of the cheapest and the best thing I've used it's so practical and useful in daily scenarios. Every person is different and may use it differently, but if you are into videography or outdoor photography, this tripod can get you some cool shots. I personally recommend it.

Features:

Suitable for DSLR, digicam, and mobiles. Completely foldable
Secure mounting.standard universal 1/4-20 screw
The mounting screw is stuck to it with some adhesive because of its design, So please do not tighten it very harshly otherwise it will become loose
Mobile attachment is compatible almost all mobiles of screen size up.
You can buy this under 500 from Amazon via the Link below.

Buy it from Amazon

Hanumex Green BackDrop Background


This is the best and affordable Green Screen you can get, if you are a guy who loves Video Making and Editing, you should give it a try, it can open new possibilities while editing videos. Or it can be a great gift for someone who likes Video Editing.

I purchased it around 4 months ago, and I am totally happy with it, it's quite big, and it covers my whole wall, and will probably cover yours too unless you live in a bungalow or something with very big walls :P

You can buy this under 500 from Amazon via the Link below.

Buy it from Amazon

Generic Handheld Engrave Tool


Do you have an artist in you, or do you know someone who wants to DIY stuff, then this can be a perfect gift under 500 to give this festive season!

With this tool, you can engrave on any material, including Wood, Metal, Glass, Plastic. It does look like a tattoo maker, but do not try that, it cannot engrave on Human Body (Tested).

You can buy this Tech Under 500 from Amazon via the link below.

Buy it from Amazon

Coffee Mug (Camera Lens)


If you get this, it can get the shit out of everyone (especially a Photographer). This mug comes in the shape of a camera lens, which is fairly accurate in terms of looks, you can't differentiate between the real one and the fake one.

It has a Cup lid with a sipping hole with a Stainless steel interior for preventing odors in your beverages

You can buy this cup from the link given below

Buy it from Amazon

These are some products from my List… You can check out the full list on my website, linked below.

Best Gadgets under 500Rs
You Can Buy This Gadgets Under Rs5000 and This Was The Best Gadgets.

•Rode SmartlavLavalier Microphone for iPhone and Smartphones, Black

•Ion Audio Vinyl Transport VJR01 Portable Briefcase Style Turntable (Red) with Built-In Stereo Speakers

•YI Home Camera Wireless IP Security Surveillance System

•JBL GO Portable Wireless Bluetooth Speaker (Black)

•JBL C100SI In-Ear Headphones with Mic (Black)

•Honor Band 3

•MI Band HRX Edition

For More Information Of about above gadgets please go through this link amd 

Amazon.in: Electronics Wonderboom Portable speakers

You might not find a speaker this small, sounding as good and being as durable.

The wonderboom sounds great is plenty loud and comes with certified IPx7 water resistance rating so you can drop em in the pool without a worry.


p.s. If you choose to buy one of these cool items, it would be really awesome if you used my given link as that helps me out a lot. Thanks :)
Here are some cool and useful gadgets under Rs. 5000, you can buy on AMAZON INDIA!!!

Lenovo Heart Rate Fitness Band :

Boltt Smart Running Shoes :

HP Portable Photo Printer :

Sensy Smart Remote - Change TV channels from your Android/iOS phone - Universal Smart Remote for TV with Voice Control :

Fox Mobiles mini 1 - The Super Slim CleverPhone That Works With Your Smartphone (Blue Colour) :

Some of them are from new Indian Startups whose products are doing great!!!
VR kit (including VR glass and remote)
Drone
Rc helicopter
F&D 5.1 hometheatre
Mobile camera lense
USB fan
Rechargeable fan and light

