What are some really cool gadgets to buy?
7 some really cool gadgets to buy India

1.Chevron Wireless Bluetooth V4.2 Headphone With Deep Bass Surround Sound


Chevron Ultra earbuds feature a long-lasting, rechargeable battery that delivers up to 4-5 hours of uninterrupted playtime per charge.

That's enough time for multiple workouts, or even a full marathon.

When these earbuds run out of juice, power them up again with magnetic touch powerbank case.

Feaures:

TRUE HIGH DEFINITION SOUND WITH MICROPHONE
COMFORTABLE IN EAR DESIGN AND IP67 WATERPROOF AND DUSTPROOF
LATEST BLUETOOTH v4.2 WITH CVC 6.0 NOISE SUPPRESSION TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRY LEADING BATTERY LIFE
Link: Chevron Wireless Bluetooth V4.2 Headphone With Deep Bass Surround Sound, IPX7 Waterproof, Charging Energy Station & Handsfree Mic [Phantom Blue]

2. 10 in 1 Office Combo Toolkit Scissors Measuring Tape Stapler Opener Punch Ruler


If you had 5" to pack in all you could, what all would you manage to put? Designers of this cool 10x Office Tool actually packed in 10 of your everyday office things.

There's a stapler, scissors, carton opener, staple pin remover, 1 meter retractable measuring tape, pencil sharpener, paper punch, key ring, storage basket and waste bin.

Just about the only thing the 10x Office Tool won’t do is make you coffee (look for that in v2.0). A really neat desk organization tool. Technical Specifications

Features:

Neatly packs in 10 office tools, Stapler,
Retractable scissors,
Pencil sharpener that double up as a pen holder,
Single hole punch, Carton opener,
Staple pin remover,
1 meter long retractable measuring tape,
Ring for your belt loop, Storage basket for your paper clips,
Waste bin, De-clutters your desk,
Compact 5 inches long,
Great for office use or on-the-go sales people and travelers.
Link: Unique Gadget 10 in 1 Office Combo Toolkit Scissors Measurig Tape Stapler Opener Punch Ruler

3. VR Virtual Reality Glasses Headset


YU222 VR BOX 3D Glasses bring you wonderful experience of watching movies and playing games.

Materials: Uses ABS and 42mm spherical resin lens material without stimulation plastic sheet, environmental. Offers you super 3D picture effect and wonderful feeling.

Simulating Viewing Distance: Offer you a 1000 inches big screen at the distance of 3m.

Easy to put your smart phone into the 3D glasses (Easily pull the smart phone storage box out, the put your smart phone in it).

Perfectly suitable your face when you wear the VR BOX 3D Glasses .

Materail: ABS+ PC Lens: diameter 33.5mm, ASPH rosin lens
Amplification: 1%-2% Visual Angle: 70-90Â°
Support system:3.5-6" mobile phone, Android & iOs system
3D picture of the screen effect is super good, awesome feeling Only can look at the left-right 3D film
Secret images, other people can not see anything except to the wearer himself
Link: You Gadget 2 RVR-83 3D VR Virtual Reality Glasses Headset For 3.5" - 6.0" Smartphones (White)

4. Amkette Evo Gamepad Pro 2


The all new media buttons and more intuitive controls make the gaming experience even better.

Hundreds of new games have been listed in Evo Game Pad App across all genres and the games list is increasing rapidly.

The new Evo Gamepad Pro 2 is very ergonomically designed and will surely enhance the gaming level of the users.

Features:

Bluetooth Smartphone Gamepad for Android phones and Tablets with precision controls
Built-in lithium battery 400mA; Battery life is about 12 hours when playing continuously
New Sturdier and Secure Clamp to hold smartphones up to 6" screen size. Free Tablet Stand for gaming on Tablets
Exclusive Evo Gamepad App 400+ games to play and growing rapidly
Link: Amkette Evo Gamepad Pro 2

5. Steampunk Styled Tesla Analog Watch


ThinkGeek Steampunk Styled Tesla Analog Watch.

Japanese Movement Steampunk Styled Analog Watch with a Weathered brass Look on Metal Findings Plus Leather Strap
A ThinkGeek creation exclusive
2 Light up Vacuum Tube style LEDs on Top, On/off Switch Controls Red LEDs in Vacuum Tubes
Link: ThinkGeek Steampunk Styled Tesla Analog Watch

6. Magnetic Levitation Floating Globe With Multicolored LED Lights


This is an awesome high tech gadget that people of all ages will enjoy.

This high tech gadget comes with a LED light feature that makes it look cool when turned on in the dark.

It is operated by an electronically controlled magnetic system.

MAGNETICALLY LEVITATING GLOBE: 360 degree Floating and rotating in midair globe, it is operated by an electronically controlled magnetic system
MAGIC ON YOUR DESK: : It is designed by electromagnetic levitation technology
MADE WITH PRECISION: This Mag Lev Globe is made with precision required to ensure that works perfectly 24x7x365 days
AMAZING GIFT, NOVELY DESK DECORATOR: It is a great birthday gift Idea for a teenager, and excellent corporate gift as well.
MULTIPLE USES: This magnetic globe is widely used for advertising display / children kids learning education teaching demo / novelty toys / home office desk decoration / business gifts / art craft gifs / creative birthday gift / Christmas gift
link: Smiledrive Magnetic Levitation Floating Globe With Multicolored LED Lights

7. Anti Theft 25 Liters Laptop Backpack


The laptop stow compartment has been provided with ample layers of protective padding to protect your valuable laptop.

The 20mm polyethylene sponge layer at the back of the bag provides comfortable contact with your back.

A unique design feature ensures that the loaded bag feels at least 20-25% lighter than it actually is.

Laptop Compatibility: Yes, Laptop Size: 45.7 cms
Outer Material: Polyester, Color: Black
Wear Resistance: Wear resistant, Water Resistance: Waterproof
Capacity: 25 liters; Weight: 998 grams; Dimensions: 30.5 cms x 17.8 cms x 45.7 cms (LxWxH)
Warranty type: Manufacturer; 1 year manufacturer warranty is non-transferable and valid for 1 year from the original date of purchase.
20mm spongy layer specially designed to provide comfort to your back, the top layer is made of high-tech wicking polyester which helps you stay cool and dry
Link: F Gear Stealth Anti Theft 25 Liters Laptop Backpack (Black)

More Resources:

ili - A Wi-Fi free instant translator for travelers | Geeky Gadgets

5 Best True Wireless Earphones in India | Geeky Gadgets

7 Best Camera Phone in India Under 20000 | Geeky Gadgets

10 Awesome & High Tech SPY Gadgets For Adults in India 2018

That’s all folk!
1- HP Sprocket Photo Printer

The on-demand character of HP Sprocket Photo Printer Paper is great. Once you have downloaded the app and connected it to the device via Bluetooth, you can print your photos instantly and easily. The photo paper has a sticky back so you can show your photos in an album or on a wall..When it comes to pocket printers, not many companies do.

There are a few portable printers on the market, such as the Canon CP1000 Selphy, which is the size of a loaf and can give you 4×6 photo album prints, or the Epson WF-100 staff, which is almost the size of a laptop but can print regular A4 pages in color. Read more about it here

2- Samsung Powerbot and Roomba

Samsung Powerbot R7070 Robot Vacuum – When you buy robotic vacuums, you want to know two things: how good is it clean, and can you leave it alone and trust that it will do the job? The Samsung POWERBOT R7070 Robot Vacuum stores on both points with strong suction power and an intelligent camera-based navigation system. It automatically adjusts the suction power to the ground, maneuvers skillfully and effortlessly traverses various surface types.

Design and Accessories

The Samsung POWERBOT R7070 Robot is not the slimmest robot in the city. This is partly due to the functional aesthetics and the bulky form factor. It measures 3.8 x 13.4 x 13.7 inches (HWD) and weighs a hefty 9.5 pounds. This is big, but not so big that it cannot slip under the lower profile furniture. It should be able to clean under most beds although it might struggle with sofas and coffee tables. While most robotic vacuums are circular, the POWERBOT is an elongated D-shape. Its front bumper is a straight edge that helps to clean corners and get right up against walls. Above you will find the camera in a recess behind the bumper. Underneath you will find the top-loading trash can and release. And on the back is the touch screen with a cleaning mode button, a play/pause button and a locking button. If you turn the POWERBOT over, you’ll find a self-cleaning roller, case sensors, charging contacts, two main wheels, a rear wheel and an on/off switch.

Read more about it here

3- Airmega 400S Air Purifier

Airmega 400s Rreview – The Wi-Fi-connected Airmega 400S Air Purifieris designed for large indoor spaces and has an integrated air quality sensor and two types of filters that filter particles up to 0.3 microns in size.

The model also has wireless capabilities, it has a special app that allows you to create air purification plans, check outdoor air quality, and control the airwalk while away from home.

Description

Real-time monitoring of air quality

The air quality sensor from Airmega informs you in real time about the quality of the air in the room. With the colorful LED ring, you know every minute whether your air is fresh or unhealthy.
4- The Bluesmart Bag

Bluesmart Luggage – Bluesmart bag was one of the first to truly make a smart carry-on, which caused a stir on the market. Although it’s a nice carry-on with good smart features, the first thing I did with my Bluesmart bag was to download the app and pair it with my suitcase, which was a very formal process since the app shows everything you need to do.

For the case itself, I used the included USB cable charger, put it on my wall adapter and let the caseload. The supporting materials indicated that the case will be fully charged after a few hours. The app has a symbol that also allows you to check the battery life.

The main compartment of the case offers plenty of space for clothes, shoes, etc., and the second compartment (which is easily accessible via an external flap) could easily accommodate both laptop and tablet…

Read more at Discoverdevices .com

5- HP Zvr Virtual Reality Display

As part of the new workstation setup, the range has been expanded to include the unique Hp zvr display monitor. Although 3D displays are not new, the Hp zvr display goes a few steps further by integrating head tracking into the hardware, where four IR sensors at the top of the monitor track five points on the 3D glasses for virtual reality.

Secondly, a Force-Feedback stylus is used as the primary interaction tool for 3D VR visuals. A keyboard and a mouse work in 2D space and are difficult to manipulate objects in 3D space, i.e. those that are not displayed on a 2D display. The 3D display, combined with head tracking and stylus interactivity, enables unprecedented immersion and control of objects in 3D space. With the pen and the head tracking holographic objects can be rotated, manipulated and zoomed. When supported in software, parts of objects such as parts of an engine or vehicle can be removed and manipulated. DisplayPort 1.2 is required to deliver the 120 Hz refresh rate required for 3D / Stereoscopic Display.

Read more at Discoverdevices .com
