The U.S. and Europe have many specialized sites for gadgets and gizmos. Several new gadgets are launched across the world daily, but very few of these are available in India. One site that I found with a real good collection is www.gizmobaba.com

They have some really unique products and all of them come with a 3-6 months replacement warranty.

I have bought from them a couple of times, the product are of good quality, and are working well, so I never got the chance to check out the warranty. But they have some really unique products. For example, I have a thumb size rechargeable IP camera which I can place anywhere and monitor it from anywhere in the world using an app on my phone and in HD! The camera is so small it can be hidden anywhere! Then there is this SD card adapter that I use in my camera. The SD card has an inbuilt wifi network, so I can connect to the wifi using my mobile and import all the photos from my DSLR camera without having to remove the SD card.

The latest product I bought was an automatic wine cork opener. Its so much fun to open a wine bottle with it, totally effortless and everyone wants to know where to get one! Many such unique products. Go check them out on 
1.Pebble PowerShare-Z


Power Share-Z allows you to transfer battery charge from one phone to another. Now you can simply borrow some charge from a friend when your phone’s running out of battery. It is so tiny that you can easily carry it in your pocket, wallet or use it as your keyring. The input and output current are automatically adjusted as per the smartphone/tablet.

Link - Amazon.in: Electronics

2. Eureka Forbes Aquaguard Personal Purifier Bottle

Now you can get pure, clean and safe drinking water wherever you go -- thanks to the Eureka Forbes Aquasure bottle purifier with Kitanu magnet. This lightweight bottle purifier makes it possible for you to take normal water and turn it into safe, potable water while on the move. Ideal for people who love exploring the outdoors, this bottle is also useful if you regularly travel to places where you need clean drinking water.

Link - Eureka Forbes Aquaguard Personal Purifier Bottle (Black)


3. SanDisk Connect Wireless Stick 16GB Flash Drive

SanDisk connect wireless stick is the flash drive reinvented to work not just with your computer, but also with your phone and tablet. With the SanDisk connect stick in your pocket, in your bag or across the room, you can wirelessly access your media or transfer large files, stream HD videos and music, save and share photos and videos to and from your mobile device. 
Very thoughtfully made to help IOS users to extend your drive space. NO need of using itunes to sync music on ur phone. just load music & videos on the wireless stick and play it from there.
price is more than Rs1000 but product is worth the money spent

Link - SanDisk Connect Wireless Stick 16GB Flash Drive (Black)


4. Wireless Car Bluetooth Receiver Adapter 3.5MM

Mstick Wireless Car Bluetooth Receiver Adapter Support hands free, can connect microphone and support phone calling through Bluetooth receiver 
• Sleep mode for saving Power 
• Compatible with home stereos / speakers, car stereos, headphones 
• Support iPhone, Android phones, other smart phones which with Bluetooth A2DP functions

Link - Wireless Car Bluetooth Receiver


5. Virtual Reality 3D Glasses

This is the best way to get into virtual reality for cheap with comfort and satisfaction! Support 3D side by side video and VR game, you can search for "3D split screen" to find suitable videos to play, you can search it on youtube. If you guys want to use this VR Headset with your computer you can! Just download an app called TrinusVR (only for Android) It allows you to view in true 3D and explore the Virtual 3D world with head tracking. Just place your Android or iOS powered smartphone in to the VR headset and launch a VR-Headset compatible app and lose yourself in the experience.

Link - Amazon.in: Electronics


6. Mini Portable Speaker with Enhanced Bass Resonator

This mini speaker with rechargeable battery is engineered to deliver a superior full-bodied, 360-degree sound. The compact, portable speaker is the best pocket size sound-box to enjoy your tunes anytime, anywhere.
Kinivo ZX100 is full packed portable speaker with outstanding battery backup, loud sound with inbuilt bass resonator. Bass Resonator acts as mini woofer.

Link - Kinivo ZX100 Mini Portable Speaker with Rechargeable Battery and Enhanced Bass Resonator (Grey, Orange)


7. Nillkin Magic Disk 2 Qi Wireless Charger Dock Station

Nillkin Wireless magic charger enhances your digital smart life experience with safe and efficient charging. It supports all models with QI wireless standard. Made of thin wireless design, charge and discharge indicators inform you of the charging levels with the circling indicator make it look cool. The Adaptive Brightness Sensor is bright and changes every second, transparent color shows the genuine quality of the product. Cut wired worries, enjoy wireless freedom, updated magic disk, more powerful beyond your imagination.

Link - Nillkin Magic Disk 2 Qi Wireless Charger Dock Station


8. Wipro Garnet 4 feet 20-Watt LED Tube Light

Good replaement for traditional florescent tubelight consuming 65 watts , direct energy saved 45 watts. we can save our bills by replacing the traditional florescent tubelights with wipro 20 watt led , and support in industrial production by saving domestic electricity load. 
The colour of light is brighter than the normal tubelight, so room will be well lit. Immune to voltage fluctuations hence will have much longer life than the usual.

Link - Wipro Garnet 4 feet 20-Watt LED Batten (Cool Day Light)


9. Self Stirring Mug

Take the strain out of stirring with the Self-Stirring Mug. No need to grab a teaspoon and stir, simply press the button and all the hard work is done for you. It's the ultimate idle drinking accessory! The Self-Stirring mug is also insulated and comes with a non-spill lid to keep your drink warm for ages, what more can you ask from a mug? It's perfect for tea, coffee, hot chocolate and even most soups.

Link - Basethings Automatic Stainless Coffee Mixing Cup Blender Self Stirring Mug Best Gift


Source - Quora , Amazon.
Make Good Coffee Anywhere

If that headline doesn’t sell it, you probably shouldn’t buy it.


Omega Juicers J8006 Nutrition Center Juicer


While high-tech kitchen gadgets tend to tout their speed, the Omega J8006 boasts just the opposite. A “masticating style” juicer, it processes at 80 rpm (most other juicers achieve 1,650 to 15,000 rpm). Slowing down allows the machine to squeeze the fruit instead of grinding it, which helps to preserve nutrients and healthy enzymes. The slower speed also prevents oxidization, which means your juice can be stored up to 72 hours without degradation of freshness or quality — so you can take your time drinking it.


Zojirushi Rice Cooker

Zojirushi's stainless-steel rice cooker produces moist, fluffy rice with minimal effort. Simply pop the raw rice grains in the removable cooking pan, add water and go catch up on your latest Netflix obsession. Once the rice is ready — yielding up to 6 cups of cooked grains at a time — the device automatically switches to warm. Use it to make everything from steel-cut oats to risotto.

Maximize Your Workspace

This sleek stand helps your posture and makes the most of whatever space you’re working in.


The Original Air Fryer

For when you want fried food, but also want to be healthy.
NFC tags - This is the one of the best and must have thing I found, I will tell you small use case - lets say when you go to office you would have different mobile setting like wifi-off, silent mode on etc and when at home turn on all functionality. Now what you do is when you go out tap your mobile on NFC tag once, outdoor setting are in place, when comes home tap again on NFC tag, oowf all home setting are on with just single tap. You can stick or hang NFC tag on the wall.


@NFC tag

and many more

Ok Stand smartphone

Ring calendar

ASAP connect

Bathroom Speaker

USB fan

Laser guided scissor

iTack

iRoller

Video glasses

Zipper earbuds

USB flash light
There are lots and some you might have missed because you thought that they are expensive.

For example, Amazon’s Echo Dot.


Echo Dot is a hands-free, voice-controlled device with a small built-in speaker—it can also connect to your speakers or headphones over Bluetooth or through a 3.5 mm audio cable to deliver stereo sound to the speakers you choose. Dot connects to the Alexa Voice Service to play music, make calls, send and receive messages, provide information, news, sports scores, weather, and more—instantly.

Universal Foldable Solar Charger


ECEEN CHARGER 13W captures more sun than conventional solar panels, which means we generate more electricity per panel, and we use less panel to produce the energy you need. The result? With ECEEN CHARGER 13W, you need not to worry your devices run off power, enjoy the greatest happiness during your travel.

Chromecast


Chromecast plugs into your TV’s HDMI port. Simply use your device and the TV you own to stream TV shows, movies, games and more. Chromecast works with iPhone®, iPad®, Android phone and tablet, Mac® and Windows® laptop and Chromebook.

And here are a three lists with more cool gadgets:

Amazing Gadgets To Check Out (36 Useful and Interesting Ones)
12 Useful Gadgets for Your Everyday Life
15 Amazing Gadgets That Make Your Life Easier
2 Best action camera 2018

Procus Rush Action Camera

4K Ultra HD Action Camera(16MP 170degree wide angle, 2inch LCD screen): NOTE: Class 10 Memory Card is required for best performance and smooth videos in 4K. Professional (4K 30fps) (2.7K 30fps) (1080P 60/30 fps) (720P at 60/30 fps) videos with 16MP photos at up to 30 frames per second for incredible photos, which is 4 times the resolution of traditional HD cameras. Capture and share your world in a fantastic resolution. (more)

SJCam SJ4000 Action Camera

Cameras have come a long way and have evolved a lot. The SJCAM SJ4000 Sports & Action Camera camera has CMOS Sensor sensor. As far as the ISO levels are concerned, this camera supports Auto, 100-400 ISO. Movies can be recorded at a resolution of 1920x1080 Pixels (1080p HD),1280x720 Pixels (720p HD). It supports memory card types of microSDHC. Overall, this camera weighs and has 1.5 Inch display to click, and preview images. (more)
