Domestic markets log fifth straight loss as earnings, trade war concerns linger
Investor sentiment took a beating after IMF chief Christine Lagarde said US-China trade tensions were a ‘threat’ to the world economy.
India’s stock markets on Tuesday witnessed a last-hour sell-off as US-China trade tiff and lukewarm corporate earnings stoked fears of uncertainty among investors.
Investor sentiment took a beating after IMF chief Christine Lagarde said US-China trade tensions were a ‘threat’ to the world economy. Closing down for the fifth session in a row, the 30-share Sensex, which swung around 600 points intra-day, ended 323.71 points, or 0.84 per cent, lower at 38,276.63. The BSE index hit an intra-day low of 38,236.18 and a high of 8,835.54. Similarly, the NSE Nifty dropped 100.35 points to settle below the 11,500 level at 11,497.90. During the day, the bourse hit a low of 11,484.45 and a high of 11,657.05.

Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services, said, “markets gave up the initial pull back as weakness in global peers on account of trade tensions dragged the sentiment. India is facing stiff resistance given mixed Q4 results and the upcoming big event risk. FIIs turned sellers in the last two days and mid and small cap continued to underperform.”

Among other factors, the depreciating rupee and weak global sentiment dampened the mood on domestic bourses. The Sensex was mainly dragged by Tata Motors, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Industries which fell up to 4.60 per cent. The quarterly results of ICICI Bank and Bharti Airtel failed to attract investors and both the companies saw constant sell-offs during the session. On the other hand, HUL, L&T, PowerGrid, Infosys, ONGC and Bajaj Auto ended higher.

After starting the session on a high note, stocks came under heavy selling pressure as domestic investors’ sentiment took a beating after IMF chief Christine Lagarde said US-China tensions were a ‘threat’ to the world economy. Global markets have been rattled by the concerns over the health of the world economy ever since US President Donald Trump on Sunday threatened to hike tariffs on $ 200 billion worth of Chinese goods.

Both Sensex and Nifty also marked its longest losing streak since February 19 this year. “Indian market has been on a shaky ground for the past couple of days driven by ambiguity associated with the US-China trade negotiations and less-than-inspiring ongoing corporate earnings season,” said Jagannadham Thunuguntla, Senior VP and Head of Research (Wealth), Centrum Broking.

Sectorally, BSE telecom, energy, oil and gas, bankex, metal and realty indices took a beating, ending up to 2.44 per cent lower. In the broader market, BSE midcap and smallcap indices too ended in the red, dropping up to 0.98 per cent. Shares of ICICI Bank fell by nearly 4 per cent on Tuesday after the company’s fourth quarter earnings failed to impress investors.

Chinese bourses, however, recovered with Shanghai Composite Index ending in the green. Equities in Japan and Korea closed in the red. European stocks were also trading lower in early trade. The Indian rupee was trading flat at 69.39 against the US dollar intra-day. Global benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.74 per cent lower at USD 70.71 per barrel.

The rupee Tuesday slipped further by 3 paise to close at 69.43 against the US currency due to fag-end dollar demand from banks and importers amid sustained foreign fund outflows. Losses in the domestic equity market and a strengthening dollar against major currencies overseas amid trade worries also weighed on the currency.
Sensex, Rupee fall as US-China trade tensions re-emerge
The rupee fell by 18 paise to close at 69.40 against the US dollar as renewed trade war worries made the forex market nervous.
The rupee and the benchmark Sensex on Monday plunged after US President Donald Trump threatened to raise tariffs on China, triggering a global rout in risky assets.


Advertising
The rupee fell by 18 paise to close at 69.40 against the US dollar as renewed trade war worries made the forex market nervous.

The BSE gauge Sensex opened on a weak note at 38,719.33 against its previous close of 38,963.26 and lost further ground as the trade progressed and hit a low of 38,509.79 during the day before finally settling at 38,600.34, down 363 points or 0.93 per cent.

The broader NSE Nifty started off the session on a bearish note at 11,605.80 and fell to a low of 11,571.35 before settling the day at 11,598.25, losing 114 points or 0.97 per cent.
Trump on Sunday said he would raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods this week and target hundreds of billions more soon. On Friday, he had cited good progress in trade talks and praised his relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

“Everyone expected talks were heading in the right direction and almost close to finishing. This was totally out of the blue and the reaction is that we have more risk aversion today,” said an analyst. Besides, the rupee fall and mixed quarterly results further hit the investor’s sentiment in the domestic equity market.

In the Sensex pack, private sector lender Yes Bank emerged as the top loser with 5.30 per cent fall after ratings downgrade. Other major laggards were Tata Motors, Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, HDFC and IndusInd Bank with losses up to 4.49 per cent.

Sectorally, BSE consumer durables, metals, realty, capital goods and auto indices fell up to 2.82 per cent. The broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices too ended up to 0.85 per cent lower.
Vinod Nair, head of Research, Geojit Financial Services, said, “Markets slid as unexpected threat to US-China trade tariffs influenced investors to book profit. Weak rupee and mixed bag of quarter results further impacted the sentiment while consolidation in oil prices and 10-year yield are the positive triggers for the Indian market. Any further escalation in trade tensions may impact the flow of foreign funds to the domestic market which may lead to sideways movement in the near term.”

EXPLAINED
Weak Rupee, mixed bag of quarterly results also impact sentiment
Markets slid as unexpected threat to US-China trade tariffs influenced investors to book profit. Weak rupee and mixed bag of quarterly results further impacted the sentiment while consolidation in oil prices and 10-year yield are the positive triggers for the Indian market, analysts said. Chinese bourses sank led by Shanghai Composite Index that plunged 5.58 per cent. Benchmark indices of Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea also witnessed sharp declines. European equites were also trading significantly lower in early trade.

“Indian markets ended the day on sharp note with the Index closing around 114 points in the red. The fall in the markets was mainly due to US President Donald Trump planning on doubling the tariff rate on $200 billion of Chinese goods,” said Hemang Jani, head – advisory, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.

Asian markets remained under pressure owing to fresh concerns over US-China trade talks.

Chinese bourses sank led by Shanghai Composite Index that plunged 5.58 per cent. Benchmark indices of Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea also witnessed sharp declines. European equites were also trading significantly lower in early trade.

“The worsening situation has put the entire world in a state of flux where even a tiny escalation can cause big damage. If the US continues to impose further restrictions on free trade flow with China and sanctions on export of Iranian oil, these actions will turn all the other economies against them,” said Umesh Mehta, head of research, Samco Securities.Gold and Japanese yen, considered as safe haven investment in times of crisis, gained Monday while Chinese currency yuan fell to the year’s low level against the dollar.
