Rupee, Sensex rebound as crude oil price slides
The dollar’s weakness against key rivals overseas, sustained foreign fund inflows and heavy buying in domestic equities also supported the rupee’s recovery.
The rupee on Monday rebounded by 23 paise to close at 70.02 against the US dollar on Friday and the BSE Sensex rallied 336 points to reclaim the 39,000-level after Brent crude oil prices receded from a six-month high of US $ 75.60 per barrel.

Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, slipped 3.6 per cent to $71.71 per barrel paving the way for the recovery in the rupee and the equity markets. The dollar’s weakness against key rivals overseas, sustained foreign fund inflows and heavy buying in domestic equities also supported the rupee’s recovery. The rupee had slumped 39 paise to close at more than six-week low of 70.25 against the US dollar on Thursday.

“Indian rupee recovered Thursday’s loss after Brent crude oil prices recedes from a six-month high of $75.60/barrel,” V K Sharma, head PCG & capital markets strategy, HDFC Securities said adding that since start of the April the correlation between Brent crude oil and the USD-rupee was steadily rising. On a weekly basis, the domestic currency saw a 67 paise decline.

The 30-share BSE Sensex, which opened on a firm footing, rallied in late-afternoon trade. It finally closed at 39,067.33, up 336.47 points, or 0.87 per cent. The NSE Nifty climbed 112.85 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 11,754.65. It was a highly volatile week for the benchmarks, with the Sensex logging a gain/loss of more than 300 points in four out of five sessions.

Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services, said, “Investors were on a profit booking mood this week given weak global cues and general elections. Additionally, the end of US waivers on oil imports from Iran has led to rise in oil prices which was a concern for the market. The sentiment was further impacted by the rise in 10-year bond yield and the rupee depreciation. Global markets were mixed on account of results and concern over slowdown in Chinese central bank’s stimulus packages.” On Friday, fall in oil prices in expectation of rise in output by OPEC provided a positive impetus for market. Further, better Q4 results and strong FIIs flows helped market to end on a positive note. However, mid and small caps continued to underperform.

Tata Steel was the biggest gainer in Sensex pack Friday, spurting 6.67 per cent after the firm posted a rise in consolidated income for the March quarter. Axis Bank gained 2.61 per cent after it reported a net profit of Rs 1,505 crore for March quarter, driven by a significant decline in provisioning and higher interest income. ICICI Bank, TCS, SBI, RIL, Infosys, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank, HUL, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance L&T and ITC rose by up to 3.05 per cent. “Falling crude prices and rising rupee helped sentiments on the street. Chinese stocks fell on Friday, posting their sharpest weekly fall since October 2018, as investors feared that China may not continue its stimulus measures amid signs of economic stabilisation. The US-China trade issues that are taking longer than expected to be resolved also weighed on the sentiment,” said Deepak Jasani, head – retail Research, HDFC Securities.

Sectorally, BSE metal, bankex, oil and gas, IT, energy and teck indices ended in the green and gained1.92 per cent. BSE auto, consumer durables and telecom finished with losses of up to 1.06 per cent. Meanwhile, broader indices underperformed the benchmarks, with the BSE Midcap and Smallcap shedding up to 0.44 per cent.

High international order intake sees L&T Q4 net rise 8% y-o-y
The engineering major’s revenue from operations rose 10 per cent y-o-y to Rs 44,900 crore. Both the revenue and the net profit were slightly better than analysts’ estimates.
Larsen and Toubro (L&T) on Friday reported an 8 per cent year-on-year (y-o-y) rise in its consolidated net profit for Q4FY19 at Rs 3,400 crore. The engineering major’s revenue from operations rose 10 per cent y-o-y to Rs 44,900 crore. Both the revenue and the net profit were slightly better than analysts’ estimates.


Advertising
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (Ebitda) grew 3 per cent y-o-y to Rs 5,600 crore while the Ebitda margin contracted by 80 basis points y-o-y to 12.5 per cent.

The order intake for the quarter ended March stood at Rs 56,538 crore, up by 14 per cent y-o-y. The international order inflow during the quarter stood at Rs 17,680 crore and constituted 31 per cent of the total.

“The domestic orders have been disappointing in the context of the fourth quarter. However, it was more than made up by the international order intake. Overall, the quarter ended on a happy note,” chief financial officer R Shankar Raman said.


Advertising

The revenue growth was primarily led by infra, hydrocarbon, realty and services businesses, L&T said. Shankar Raman told reporters during a press conference that the geo-political situation has been volatile.

“There have been challenges around the insolvency resolution process. There has been growing shadow of NPAs. There have been failed business models and failed corporations. (There are) stretched promoters, and a lot of credit squeeze in the system and to add more spice to it, regulators are also keeping pace with the changes that are sweeping around and the regulations keep getting tighter with every passing event,” he said.

The growth in international business was largely contributed by the hydrocarbon segment in the fourth quarter, the firm said.

Maintaining a similar growth guidance for the next financial year, Shankar Raman said, “We will have an order intake of a very similar quantum as the fiscal year 2019. We look at the next year with optimism. We think some of the programmes that we have launched are continuing programmes and they are quite agnostic to any change in the government. I think, we will continue to report between 10 per cent and 12 per cent of order intake.”

BEST OF EXPRESS

Amit Shah 'puke worthy': TMC hits out at BJP chief for 'Kangal Bengal' comment

Explained: The turf battle behind Mayawati’s attacks on Bhim Army’s Chandrashekhar Azad

F-21 jets will not be sold to any other country if we get IAF contract: Lockheed Martin
“In terms of revenue, we will report a 12-15 per cent growth. In terms of margin, the aggregate of all segments excluding services business, we are reporting 10.5 per cent — the same as the previous year. We hope the margin profile continues to be same next year,” the CFO added.

The management also pointed out that Rs 9,000 crore of slow-moving orders were removed during the year from the consolidated order book, which stood at over Rs 2.93 lakh crore as on March 31, 2019. International order book constituted 22 per cent of the total order book.

Meanwhile, L&T refused to comment on any updates regarding the open offer for Mindtree that is supposed to commence on May 14. FE
Industrial output contracts 0.1% in March 2019; hits lowest in 21 months
Out of the nine sectors represented in Index of Industrial Production (IIP), output of manufacturing, capital goods, intermediate goods and consumer durables recorded a contraction in March, data released by Central Statistics Office (CSO) on Friday showed.
Contracting to a 21-month low of 0.1 per cent, factory output for March continued to slide for the third consecutive month as investment and consumption demand recorded a slowdown. Out of the nine sectors represented in Index of Industrial Production (IIP), output of manufacturing, capital goods, intermediate goods and consumer durables recorded a contraction in March, data released by Central Statistics Office (CSO) on Friday showed.

This is the first time IIP growth has contracted after posting a contraction of 0.3 per cent in June 2017. IIP growth had slipped to a 20-month low of 0.1 per cent in February and had stood at 5.3 per cent in March 2018. For the 2018-19 financial year as a whole, IIP growth stood at 3.6 per cent, much lower than 4.4 per cent recorded in previous financial year.

Manufacturing output, which carries weight of 77.63 per cent in IIP, remained in the negative territory for the second month in a row, contracting 0.4 per cent in March as against a growth of 5.7 per cent in the year-ago period and contraction of 0.4 per cent growth in previous month. Capital goods output, an indicator of investment activity, also posted a contraction for the third consecutive month at 8.7 per cent in March as against a contraction of 3.1 per cent in the year-ago period and (-)8.9 per cent in February 2019.

Economists said this slowing trend for industrial output mirrors the slowdown in economic growth. In the near-term, industrial activities are expected to remain fragile, they said.

“On yearly basis, FY19 IIP growth at 3.6 per cent has been the lowest in last three years and its trajectory mirrors the trajectory of GDP growth. FY19 IIP growth was supported by infrastructure/ construction goods and consumer durables. However, on quarterly basis both of these sectors are also witnessing growth slowdown and consumer durable even contracted in 4QFY19. Declining growth of primary goods and deepening contraction of intermediate goods, and weakness in both investment and consumption activities suggests very fragile industrial activities in near-term,” Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist, India Ratings & Research said.

Sector-wise data showed that the growth in intermediate goods contracted for the fifth month in a row at 2.5 per cent in March as against 5.0 per cent contraction in February and 2.5 per cent growth in same period last year. Consumer durables output recorded contraction of 5.1 per cent as against a growth of 6.2 per cent in year-ago period.

Mining sector output grew 0.8 per cent in March from 2.2 per cent previous month and 3.1 per cent in March last year, while electricity output grew

2.2 per cent in March as against 5.9 per cent in the year-ago period.

BEST OF EXPRESS

Amit Shah 'puke worthy': TMC hits out at BJP chief for 'Kangal Bengal' comment

Explained: The turf battle behind Mayawati’s attacks on Bhim Army’s Chandrashekhar Azad

F-21 jets will not be sold to any other country if we get IAF contract: Lockheed Martin
Going ahead, economists said consumer spending will increase only gradually and therefore, growth will be subdued in first few months of this fiscal.

“Consumer spending will increase only gradually and hence there would be a tendency for growth to be subdued in the first few months of FY20. The important part will be government expenditure and the decision taken on capex before the main budget is introduced would need attention,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE Ratings said.
