L&T acquires 33 lakh shares of Mindtree; its stake now up at 25.9%
Shares of Mindtree closed 0.19 per cent down at Rs 978.60 per share on Thursday at the BSE. L&T is in the midst of acquiring a majority stake in Mindtree, which the promoters of the latter are opposed to.
With L&T acquiring more than 33 lakh shares of Mindtree through the open market on Thursday at a price of Rs 980 a piece, the engineering major has now taken its total shareholding in the IT firm to 25.93 per cent. Thursday’s transaction amounted to Rs 323.96 crore.


Advertising
Shares of Mindtree closed 0.19 per cent down at Rs 978.60 per share on Thursday at the BSE. L&T is in the midst of acquiring a majority stake in Mindtree, which the promoters of the latter are opposed to.

After having acquired around 20 per cent stake in Mindtree from Cafe Coffee Day founder VG Siddhartha in March, L&T has mandated Axis Capital to buy as much as 15 per cent shares of Mindtree from the open market.

Over the last few days, the engineering major has been busy acquiring shares of Mindtree from the open market. On Wednesday, L&T had purchased over 37 lakh shares of Mindtree from the open market at a price of Rs 976.96, thereby upping its stake in the IT firm to 23.92 per cent. In the coming days, L&T will acquire another 9 per cent of Mindtree shares from the open market. The firm is also set to commence an open offer on May 14 in which it will be looking to acquire 31 per cent of the firm at Rs 980 per share.


Advertising

Meanwhile, a committee of independent directors constituted by Mindtree board is yet to submit its recommendation in respect of the offer by L&T for the consideration of the shareholders. The report is expected to be submitted soon. Mindtree which had initially considered a buyback later decided not to proceed with the plan. The firm had stated that all independent directors will be members of the committee of independent directors which is headed by Apurva Purohit, lead independent director and spokesperson.

During a post-earnings call last month, the Mindtree management had told analysts that the independent directors will make their recommendations in due course.

Based on legal provisions, the independent directors’ committee needs to make its recommendations before the open offer opens, the management said. —FE
Reliance subsidiary acquires UK toy retailer Hamleys
Hamleys has about 167 stores across 18 countries. In India, Reliance has the master franchise for Hamleys, and currently operates 88 stores across 29 cities.
Reliance Brands, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), on Thursday said it is acquiring UK-based toymaker Hamleys from C.banner International.


Advertising
In a late Thursday evening statement, the company said that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire 100 per cent shares of Hamleys Global Holdings, the owner of the Hamleys brand, from C.banner International.

Hamleys has about 167 stores across 18 countries. In India, Reliance has the master franchise for Hamleys, and currently operates 88 stores across 29 cities.

“This acquisition will catapult Reliance Brands to be a dominant player in the global toy retail industry,” the company said in a statement.


Advertising

As is known, Reliance plans to launch an e-commerce marketplace later this year that will sell everything from food, fashion to toys and this acquisition will perfectly fit into its strategy.

Hamleys is currently owned by Chinese fashion conglomerate C.banner International, which had acquired it for £100 million in 2015. C.banner also owns the Chinese units of marquee consumer retail brands such as Steve Madden and Sundance.

The Chinese company has been looking to cut its losses and sell off Hamleys after logging heavy losses, according to a report in Sky News last year in October.

Hamleys started with a single-store shop, Noah’s Ark, in 1760, around the time when the British East India Company was ruling India.

BEST OF EXPRESS

You committed a big sin: PM Modi jabs Digvijaya for not voting

Mayawati says BJP women leaders fear their husbands meeting Modi

LIVE
Sam Pitroda should apologise publicly, says Rahul Gandhi in Punjab
In 2003, Hamleys was delisted from the London stock market by Icelandic investment firm Baugur Group, which had paid $68.8 million for the company. In 2012, it was sold for $78.4 million to France’s Groupe Ludendo.

Hamleys reported losses of £12 million in 2017, when it last reported its financials.

Commenting on the development, Darshan Mehta, president and CEO of Reliance Brands, said, “Over the last few years, we have built a very significant and profitable business in toy retailing under the Hamleys brand in India. The worldwide acquisition of the iconic Hamleys brand and business, places Reliance into the frontline of global retail. Personally it is a long cherished dream come true”. —FE

